About DVCDiablo Valley College is one of three publicly supported two-year
community colleges in the Contra Costa Community College District. The larger
of DVCâ€™s two campuses is located off Interstate 680 in Pleasant Hill.And the
newer San Ramon Campus serves the south county in Dougherty Valley. Between its
two campuses, DVC serves more than 22,000 students each semester with a wide
variety of program options.Both of our handsomely landscaped locations are a
short distance from San Francisco.Creating the ideal settings for the premier
transfer institution in California. We are the college of choice for many
students from the private and public high schools nearby.Our students come
from the Martinez, Mt. Diablo, San Ramon, and Acalanes School Districts.
Research figures recently released by UCLA's Center for the Study of Community
Colleges show that DVC's transfer rate to four-year universities is 67 percent
higher than the national average. Another report, released by the California
Post-secondary Educational Commission, shows that DVC ranked number one in
transfers in the state, ahead of all other California community colleges.
A brief history of our land shows us that this was originally home to the
Costanoan Indians. In 1844, the Mexican government granted the land to William
Welch, and it became part of his huge Rancho Las Juntas, which included
northwestern Walnut Creek, all of Pleasant Hill, and the northeastern half of
Martinez. After World War II the land was subdivided into housing tracts, and
on October 5, 1950, the College Board of Trustees purchased the DVC site for
$172,500. Construction began in September, 1951.
